+++
title = "X11 Forwarding from macOS"
+++

# X11 Forwarding from macOS

## What

I want to install XQuartz on my Mac so that it has an X server, and then
forward it to remote hosts that I SSH onto.

## Why

So that I can run GUI applications on remote hosts without local X server
(or window manager). GUI apps on remote hosts will connect to the forwarded
X server on my Mac, and display whatever window directly on my Mac.

## How is it better than VNC?

It is.

## Step-by-step instructions

### On your Mac

First install XQuartz. For example, you may use homebrew by running
`brew install xquartz`.

Run `launchctl load -w /Library/LaunchAgents/org.xquartz.startx.plist` and then
reboot. (Instructed by this [Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/osx/comments/y6e59/xquartz_and_apparently_incorrectly_set_display/).
Note that this step is necessary only if you want to start X-forwarded SSH session
from Terminal.app, vs. from XTerm in XQuartz. Anyway, this step is highly recommended.)
Now, if you fire up Terminal.app, variable `$DISPLAY` should be set. Actually,
it points to the X server in XQuartz.

In your `~/.ssh/config`, add the following attributes to whatever hosts for which you want
to enable X11 forwarding. It is not recommended to enable X11 forwarding for untrusted
remote hosts, just like you should not forward your SSH agent to untrusted remote
hosts.

```
ForwardX11 yes
ForwardX11Trusted yes
ServerAliveInterval 60
ForwardX11Timeout 596h
```

### On remote hosts

First, make sure `xauth` is installed. Then make sure the following items are
enabled in `sshd` configuration (usually at `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`):

```
AllowTcpForwarding yes
X11Forwarding yes
X11DisplayOffset 10
X11UseLocalhost yes
```

Then, restart `sshd`. Now if you SSH onto a remote host for which you have enabled
X11 forwarding, variable `$DISPLAY` should be set. Install `xterm` and run it to
make sure forwarding works. You can now run whatever GUI app you like, such as
`virt-manager`, `omnet++`, etc.

